---
date: "2025-10-16T14:42:10Z"
position: "002"
title: Reimagine possible with Contentstack Edge with Tim Benniks & Victor Monsch
description: See how Contentstack Edge allows you to reimagine the possibilities of digital experience by seamlessly integrating intelligent content management with real-time first-party data activation. Experience how brands can deliver hyper-personalized, adaptive experiences that evolve with every customer interaction while staying authentically on-brand. Witness the future of digital experiences where content adapts, data informs, and every touchpoint matters—closing the loop between rich customer insights and actionable content delivery that truly sets great experiences apart from merely good ones.
image: https://img.youtube.com/vi/2J9EHFjb-0M/maxresdefault.jpg
videoId: 2J9EHFjb-0M
transcript: "I really love this quote from Sir Arthur C. Clark because for me like the last 18 months, it really does feel like magic. I've never had so much fun at work. It's a little crazy. I'm not going to lie. um like we talked about the pace of change, but it is so much fun and it really feels magical the things that are becoming possible and we want to be at the leading edge of that of that change. So I will ask once again, are you ready? Yeah. All right. [Applause] You ready to see something that feels like magic? Yeah. All right. Well, it's my great pleasure to uh bring up to the stage uh two of the coolest dudes in tech, two guys that I get the pleasure of working with and uh and calling my friends. Please welcome Victor Munch and Tim Bennox to the stage. [Music] Extra [Music] extra. This is my feeling. This is my extra. Thank you, Gibb. Super exciting vision. Hi everyone, I'm Victor. I've worked with many of you here in the room in your evaluation and adoption of const. With me is my friend Tim was very much involved in every aspect of our products. As you can see, he's already on his laptop. We're ready to roll as a developer experience lead. We're kind of swapping places today, right? Usually I demo, but today you're doing this. For a little backstory, we also swapped countries somehow, right? So, I'm French or Dutch. We ended up living in each other's home countries. But anyway, we make a good deal. I only like your type of cheese though. Oh, it's not. So, what we're about to see with Agent OS and the experiences it helps you deliver is twofold, right? So, first the customer experience it helps you achieve and then the way it supercharges your teams. Before jumping in though, I'd love you to think about the experiences you create today and how you create them, right? The time and effort that go into them. What we're going to show will change how you create these experiences, of course, because it's going to make every user a power user. like your deep set. This first demo is of the digital concarch front end conversational AI to expose to your customers. Over to you Tim. All right. So now we had all these amazing words about how cool this is supposed to be, right? This is the moment we actually show you. So I won't be saying all those words. We'll actually just demo this thing. So we do need to say that this is completely bleeding edge stuff. like we're pushing our LLM partners like to the brink to do all this stuff. So, hands in the air. Who wants to see me completely just do this thing live versus doing a video? I got one hand. Oh, there's a bunch of hands. Okay, cool. So, I did make a video this morning just to show you it works if those LLMs are starting to boink a little bit. Enough caveats. It's ready. So, we've been talking about personalization, right? And so how it's all contextbased has to be super adaptive and AI is really helping you. And so we're talking about Red Panda here. And so if we can switch to my laptop, I'll show you the story here. So um this is about the user, which is me. I really want to go on a lovely holiday to a place that's exotic. And so I want to go for a week. I want to do all these lovely activities, be super adventurous, all those kind of things. And now I'm here on social media and I actually just saw this post by the Red Panda Resort. And so this is really intriguing. You know, it's in the Maldes and like this looks great and they actually have a link to package offers. Well, of course, I'm going to click that. And so our personalization story is actually already starting here, but I guess I gave a little bit of intent. I want to see these packages. And so when we actually open our data panel here, um you won't have this on your production, but this is for us to show you um all types of the interest that I already have exhibited, right? So I am actually inbound from social here, but I'm still anonymous. So I just given a little bit of an intent. And so I said I wanted to do all these like adventurous things. So let's have a let's have a look at reef snorkeling here. And so look at these pictures, man. I'm so ready to go. This is just and look at this sailing like this is actually now already starting to be a little bit more contextual to me because we actually have a look at the data here. What is happening is that our data and insights without the you know human interaction of making rules. It started to infer that I have a lookalike model. I might be a premier customer and it's starting to give some uh scoring towards that. And so this is basically the AI kind of self-driving based on what it sees in the data of how other potentially premier customers are acting. So when I now continue to let's say um parasailing here, this is again one of those kind of experiences where that should start to you know be more premier and actually it just figured out that I clicked more than enough. I exhibited all these kind of traits of premier customers. is like, let's just try and upsell this thing because why not? And so the context is growing, but the audience is getting a little bit smaller. It's going to be much closer to me now. So now we go back to the previous page. However, it's now a personalized variant that says, \"Hey, I have a 4-day package for you.\" And so it already figured out all kind of these things I clicked on. So this is much higher context. And so what just popped here on the right is our concer. So when you look back at the slide just before that Victor was showing this is our digital concares in agent OS I said I wanted to go a week right so let's just ask it and see what happens so now the agent OS is spinning up it's figuring out hey do we actually have a sixday product well as it turns out it did it just replied perfect I just applied your six day and now we are a six-day thrillseker and so Actually, I want to go diving. I haven't done it in a while, but like that's like one part of this Maldives experience, right? So, I'm just going to ask it. Typing under pressure is the way, by the way. That's fun. It seems to be going. Um, actually, it found Okay, there's scuba diving. Yeah, I saw that link before. Um, but it's adding me if I have a Patty open water certification. Well, actually, I do because I've been diving before. I'll just say, \"Yeah, sure. Let's go. And so what you'll see here now is that the agent comes back with okay well if you have it we can actually replace any of those activities that you have here with scuba diving. So let's just replace jet skiing. And so what you see here that we are creating this package specifically for people hyperpersonalizing and the AI is doing this. This is completely adaptive to me because this package that we just created that now has Scuba. You can actually have a look. Look at this. Um, if Victor would do this, it might be a different package. This is not a specific product that I set up. Of course, you set the rules of which packages you have, but the AI and digital of and and our data and insights figures this out for you. So we are now one step away from making it fully personalized. And if you actually have a quick look before we make it like an audience of one, you can see I'm now Patty certifi certified here, which means this agent was able to actually put me in an audience. It's all completely interconnected. So now let's book. And now we can really test my typing skills. And also these are not my actual credentials. Don't worry. All right, we are in. All right. So now I don't want to save this credit card. So now that we paid, what just happened is that our agent figured out that in our data sources that are coming into our CDP, there's actually Salesforce connection. So when we have a look at this data, what is one of the most important things in my opinion is that when you look down here, suddenly there's all my interests because I've been browsing this website before. I just started anonymously and I came into becoming known and so now it has merged those profiles. So it knows all about my interest and you can do a lot more personalization type experiences with this. And so we can actually now also open the customer tab. And you can see this I spend an ungodly amount at this company because I've been testing this literally every day. You're rich. Um, safe to say I'm a premier customer. I spent over $142,000 at this place. And so it actually found my phone number, all the things. Again, you're not going to have this on your production website, but it shows you that we're able to have this data and insights platform figure those things out for you, merge the stuff. And so what we just saw is I went from completely anonymous, showed a little bit of intent and the context started to build. We had all the adaptive stuff happening, right? This is completely datadriven and the AI was actually self-driving for a lot of it. And we went to hyperpersonalization. And hopefully this actually showed what Gertib was explaining how well this worked because I completely converted to this. Of course, it's a demo, but if you do this smartly for your products, you will see conversion skyrocket because the real personalization is that you don't really notice first and over time it gets better and better and it's fully adapted to you and then when you try to upsell, you will get that conversion. Um, so that's this for demo number one. So let's go back to Victor and also the slides. Okay everyone, thank you pin. Very cool demo. Thank you. And of course this is one example of what you can build with. So to recap, we just saw him start from a social media campaign land on the website unknown and yet we knew some things about him, right? So we could have right we had that context. We could have started applying rules based personization, right? It still works. It's still useful. Uh we didn't. That's fine. Obviously, the behavior we showed was flagged as likely to become a premier customer, right? That's literally flagged by the machine learning model called a lookalike model. So, it looks like our actual premier customers based on this behavior. Again, that's more context, right? Right? That's why you got the upsell offer which is reasoning based. Right? So it's not us specifically saying oh if you clicked this many pages or whatever it's oh based on that look like model then it can get an upsell ter package right based on his interests again additional context we're still building it up the digital conser that knew what was possible very important and required like the party certification also important. So really made his own package, right? He might not have bought it as is. And that's kind of ending up to the perfect package for Tim, right? It's for a longer duration, for the right activities. Again, additional context of what he wants to do, what he likes. Here we're really getting into very dynamic onetoone personalization. That's really the package for him and what some might call hyperpersonalization because it's h AIdriven as well. And of course, he went and booked which was also quite expensive. and yeah, added to his profile to all his his past purchases. Um, and that's kind of the peak context we reached in that demo, right? In reality, it doesn't stop there. Of course, even if you're locked in or you convert it, you know, you can still learn more about your customers. So, it continues building up. So, again, Tim, you went through multiple stages of personalization, right? Because Constack adapted based on the context available at the time beyond the experience itself. And that's really cool. What happens behind the scenes is that the digital consent fetched all the sources of data, right? In this case, our commerce catalog, right? So it doesn't have to be something that's statically written in constac or anything. That's very very powerful because agents can use any external tool, right? We'll go deeper on this point afterwards. In essence, team just went from 30 minutes, well, 30 minutes of browsing to 5 minutes of guided experience, right? And customers today, they don't necessarily expect personalization or an agent, but they expect this kind of easy journey. And that's what those two things allow you to achieve. And beyond the customer delight, that's pretty obvious, right? This has a direct correlation with your conversion rates, with your revenue, right? We just saw Tim converge thanks to the agent. Now, this is very cool, but there's still a question mark right on the screen. So, that's only a small aspect of a toss. Now, we're about to see Polaris and custom agents and how it works. That's where you shine again. All right. Well, let's do this again. And so, um, let's start with a little bit of a story about the fact like this platform is a team buy, right? It's not just for your end users. is also for you the content creators, the developers, all that stuff. And so the story about Red Panda is that generally if you look historically relaxation is by far what we think about when something is actually um a premier customer. More luxurious would be better champagne, more being alone on a beach, things like that. But what we noticed is that actually I just wanted to do water sports and other stuff that is also expensive. And so we kind of need to figure out a little bit like have we found the right opportunity based on the data that we personalized exactly for these people because we of course want more premier customers, right? We want more people to convert there. And so let me show you the tools that we have um inside content stack to actually get you there. So can we switch please? Thank you. All right. So we are now looking at our audience insights tool which is like an an opport opportunity explorer and I don't say this lightly. I have never seen this in our space and I've been here a while. This is crazy. So this is essentially having like a data scientist in your back pocket. Like this is completely the nexus between your CMS and your content and the data of how users actually interact with that. And so when we look at this, this is prevalence versus premier likelihood. So prevalence is the way up, right? So culture, food, relaxation, there's a lot of content items already there because of course that's what we thought. Let's add more relaxation content because people might convert. But that's on the standard customer side here, right? So when we actually go to the right, you'll see more to the right is what more likely Premier customers are actually browsing. And so we did notice adventure. So there is some content here but there's definitely here on the right like hiking all-inclusive things like that there is a definite ability to win if we make content there and you see where people are actually browsing you start to convert more and the bigger the bubble the more people and so what is actually a really interesting one here is we can actually look at this over time so last year the content oh it's still there last year the content was much more relaxation and much more in the middle, right? Because we didn't really know exactly what Premier customers were doing. And then while this website was up and people were browsing, you can actually see that things are moving. And these are not just two data points. What you have to consider is that this is a um trajectory or an inertia of where people are going to go in the future. And we can really kind of figure out what is our opportunity. But this is agent OS. Like I just gave you 15 sentences to explain it, but what if we just ask Polaris, right? So we have the Polaris agent that helps you with all the things inside content stack. So I can just ask anything and we'll see the best content you. Yep. There we go. Uh no, that's not too bad. uh this week. And so now Polaris will go to our orchestrator agent and that orchestrator agent figures out what kind of abilities and toolings do I have around and you saw that it actually found the agent tool for opportunities. So let's just render. I'll show you. And so when you open this up, you can actually see the agent tool for opportunities was found which is an automation. And before I explain you know what we can do after this the fact that it's an automation means that you have controlled it and you have controlled the scope of what data it can see. You can actually set that up yourself. Um well it's actually giving us a bunch of numbers and then the best opportunities are like in topics like hiking story ideas thrills. So I'm going to do something now that you probably have not seen and this is also where I really hope it works. Here we go. create a page about the thrills of hiking on the Maldes use our hiking assets because we already have some images. So I am now essentially just giving another completely different query than before which is just this interface is kind of nondeterministic. can just throw something in and it will come back because it knows exactly based on what you've given it. It starts to reason and it comes back with what you need. And so what comes back is actually more deterministic. We ask for a page and what you see with this reasoning here is that our whole army of agents is now actually running. Right? If you want to make a page, if you know content stack, you know we have an entry editor, right? So we have to make an entry and then we have a content type agent because I just wrote page. I could have written landing page or whatever. And so this agent needs to figure out what is a page, what is the content type, what are the fields, do I have images about hiking, all of that stuff. And so just step back and think how long it would take you to make a really good landing page that's personalized with all the images you have. That's going to take a second, right? And here it's also taking a second, but most likely two, three minutes. So while this runs because it has to do some important work, I'm going to just show you what our custom agents look like. Right? So that's the middle bit that both Victor and Gertie were showing. And so you can I'm just go back quickly. What you can do to an agent is you can just like you have probably seen that before with people who you talk to let's say chat GPD you are a experienced writer blah blah blah that part you can do here as well but you can also give additional instructions and you can give specific output formatting like you don't always have to do this our base agents have this embedded but you can and that's where this gets very interesting because then the next step is what makes it extremely powerful this is where you can give the agent its abilities so you can give it automations that you have created so you know it goes in and comes out. Um you can actually give it sub agents like in this case this custom agent has the entry agent and let's also just give it the asset agent and so these sub agents become tools for the orchestrator agent or your custom agent which then have how many things how many times did I say agent just now like I just realized this is crazy. Anyways, they can do their own things as well. But where it gets actually really clever is if you know our automate tooling, you know, you have actions, right? And all these actions will be tools and abilities for your agents as well, right? We can deploy, we can do any sort of triggers. We can talk to Slack or Teams or update a database somewhere or do a fetch call HTTP, anything you want. And so what this means is that you can make an agent really quite dirtistic. And this is what I think this is why content stack is really nailing this part because without this as a business you never really know what comes out of these agents. But with this you can really be much more specific. And so I know from a few in the room that you're quite technical. I won't go too deep but all this is based on MCP. And all these abilities are dynamic tools that are given over this protocol. And in the coming months, we'll be doing much more releases around that also for the tech crowd. Um, okay. Let's see if it finished our page. It looks like it did. So, let's not go into the reasoning. Let's just open this thing in visual builder. And it made the thrills of hiking in the Maldivs. And here's our page. And so just consider I just wrote one sentence give me a page but we have brandkit so it knows our language. It has a knowledge fault like Nia said so well it's a factor database so it knows everything about us and it just realized well we have a bunch of hiking pictures here so it put this as a hero and you should know we told the agents we like hero components so it did that for us right you can kind of control this. So when we scroll down like I haven't seen this, right? This is the first time I'm seeing this. So let's see what it came up with. All this copy comes out of our brandit voices. So it knows that it works for us. Look at this. Normally I have to fix a few things before I save. But actually I don't have to this time. Yeah, there's actually a hiking banner text right above here. Yeah. Yeah. Too too far. What happened? This image on the right. Hiking banner. This one can be better. Right. The one on the right. bottom right. We can change the text. Oh, hiking banner. Yeah. Yeah. So, what this is is an incredible starting point for you, right? And then this doesn't actually replace content editors. This just knows your rules and gives you a base and then you rock. You do what you need to do. So, hiking fishing because that's we're all about the fish today. Okay, let's save this bad boy. So now that I'm here, I really want to show you a few additional tools that have been out for a while at content stack, but it's just important for you as content editors to know what you can do because this is still a personalization story, right? We just made the thrills of hiking, but what if you want to go hiking with like a family when you have a bunch of 10-year-olds? The thrills of hiking on an island with a lot of rocks might be a little like maybe just we change that copy a little, right? So here we go to the traveler group for family. This is one of our variants. And so the family audience we can now make a new variant for. And so what I can do I I'm not going to type copy here. Like I I just don't want to. So what I can do is I go to our AI assistant. And this AI assistant actually knows brand kit. So I can select our brand kit specifically for Red Panda. And then what you see here, it already knows I'm personalizing for a family. So, let me just hit this button and let it rewrite with that audience in mind. So, discover the joys of hiking. Um, I'm not sure this is the best line ever, but it certainly knew the audience and changed it up because the thrills is not really something that works. I do want a different image though. So, we can just go and find a lovely hiking image with a family on it. Here we go. And so what you should know once this actually comes out I could also have asked Polaris find me a hiking image for the hero please and it would just do that. Okay. So now that we have this um this is still the same base entry but we only change these two fields. So you can see these little you know banners here. So let's deploy this one. However I want to deploy this one for next week because we first have to get some approvals things like that. So, let's just hit later. And then we're just going to go for the 18 and hit send. And so, what this is doing now, this is in like now you know in your mind, okay, I have something going live next week, but wouldn't it be nice if we can actually show the differences because you can make releases with like 10 20 pages and it's really hard to see those differences. So, when I actually go to today, you'll see our page obviously. when I go to next week, it's the same page because I haven't actually sh set my audience to being a family. So, what you can do is actually go to traveler group and family. And now we can see that difference. And so, this kind of still looks kind of boring, right? But watch this. This is where it starts. I can even like I'm a tech guy. Look, look at this. This is like look at the differences and everything. And you can say, well, let's make this like desktop. Make it smaller. you can see all the things and really check is this exactly what you wanted. And so what we just did is probably I'm just looking at the timer. I think this was like 8 minutes of building this base page that is actually good enough to really get you super far. And so Agent OS is so aware of your brand through BrandKit, but also through how these agents can reason and how we've set this up that it was able to actually do this for us. And so with that, it's back to Victor. Thank you. Oh, amazing. And worked. So it actually worked, guys. Amazing. Now, most of the time it worked also yesterday and this morning, but you never know, right? The demo. No, but to be honest, it's like we're sitting at 90%. Yeah. But still you like yeah good to have the video just in case. Yes. All right. So what we just saw is of course Polaris right this kind of AI companion within const. So we saw let's say an example use case could have been a bunch of other things right as well as the ability to create any agents which also opens up unlimited possibilities. Tim just took his content creation process or drafting process from let's say two hours of figuring out okay what do I want the layout to be what assets do I want to 10 minutes or even less of curation with Polaris this on its own of course is amazing right but it's only again a tiny aspect of what it could have done right it's a super short demo as we've seen here this kind of supercharges everything right from simplifying insights to accelerating content creation to even like personalization or campaign management right beyond today's use cases but agent OS often offers even more polarist and digital concurge or entry points into agents with access to different capabilities of course we don't want somebody on the front end to create a page suddenly so there's the the kind of the convers conversational agent in agent OS there's also autonomous agents which is really important and I'll talk more about this in a second. Agents use tools right and team showed that really well. So the first tool of course is the constac MCP right so model connect protocol for how when and why to use our APIs for the agents to figure that out to be smart by themselves. So that's the main thing right where when you say create an entry well it has to know okay which APIs do I call but also custom tools we saw let's say oh send a slack message or send an email or make an API requests on your own using maybe your automations right so if you have existing flows they could also be reused throughout agents and finally of course like we said before it's third party APIs and MCP servers right so it's really an entire ecosystem it's not just two super powerful chat bots kind of on their own is this whole ecosystem and I just talked about autonomous agents right that is huge and that is partly why this is so different from what our competitors offer imagine let's say an agent watching content trends overnight and your team logging in in the morning with you know an article freely drafted based on recent news or an agents looking for low traffic products and enriching them for better discoverability or even an agent watching SEO ranking identifying lowranking pages and suggesting optimizations, right? You can literally make any agent you need and you'll be able to start from templates. That's why we believe every team can benefit from agents in one way or another. Right? When we started, I asked you to think about your content creation process. Right? Of course, it always takes a while and we just saw already the hiking banner thing. AI is not perfect. We still very much need humans. Even with brand kit, with everything else, it's much better. It's never 100%. We need humans. And here, Tim saved, let's say, hours of time, right? While focusing on the right things, it's not just speed. It's also what you do, what what matters most. And like him, agents can make you your team much more powerful. And that was agent. We're very excited for it to create with it soon. Thank you. And Dr. Yeah. Okay. [Music] Wow. That was awesome. You can kind of see I I see it happening in real time where we're starting to take AI for granted almost like rewind a year ago and think about some of the stuff that you just saw. It wasn't even in a figment in our imagination. So when I say the way we work is going to change, that's what I mean. The way you work with content stock, the roles are going to change. This all ties to the change management topic. Marketing operations, webdev, content editors, the way we work is going to change. What you just saw is not possible with any other solution in the world. I can say that with 100% confidence today. So, we're really proud of that. We have solved for scale. We have solved for context. And we're giving you the power to be adaptive. We made a pretty bold statement this week and said content management as we know it is dead. And that's because the things that used to matter aren't going to matter anymore. It's all changing. But I see this as an opportunity for you to lead yourself into the next chapter of your career and to lead your companies into this new era and their new chapter of growth. So let's recap. We showed you how to h how you can unlock adaptive and how it's all based on this shift to reasoning based personalization. We showed you under the hood of agent OS as the foundation for building and deploying agents and automations which enhances the experience of not just your customers but your internal teams as well. We have a booth in the expo hall. If you want to learn more, stop by. uh we call it the innovation station. Uh but you can learn all about uh as deep as you want to go basically on agent OS and the entire content stack edge platform. For those of you watching online, go check out contentstack.com to learn more. I would like to thank you very very much for being here today on behalf of my team who worked really hard to put this event together. Um I hope you enjoy the rest of the program. Um and with that, I'd like to welcome Sonia back to the stage. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. So, that was so interesting. I was at the back scribbling away notes. So much information and development. I'm sure that that's got your imagination going wild on what's possible and what your brands can achieve with this new content stack platform. Before I excuse us all for our 15 minutes break, I want to give a big shout out to Richard and EA and Simon and Miranda who are somewhere in the crowd. And if that's you, please stand up, raise your hand because you have started posting on LinkedIn. I'm not saying it's a competition. Miranda's at the front, but I am saying that this is called content con and we've heard it first. Content is data. So, if you do want to go grab yourself a nice quick coffee and visit the contact stat booth, if you can come back in 15 minutes, that'd be awesome. And you know what? If you're networking for the first time, like many of us are, or you need some help to get things going, I encourage some dopamine questions. I've got two for you, and I want to know if you ask anyone. One, what's the weirdest thing that happened to you this summer? And turns out people do want to share. And the second is how are you using AI tools to improve your life? And actually which resources can you recommend. So on that note, we'll see you back here in 15 for our first customer section. And remember the hashtag is #contentcon25."
tags: []
playlist: live-contentstack
duration: "35:56"
---

